let's face it when it comes to business
it's a little bit of what you know who
you know how prepared you are luck
seizing those opportunities when they're
presented to you and all of us know that
it's the people that we can connect with
that sometimes can make things happen
for us and we're dying to have those
connections so when you do make one of
those really important connections how
do you not blow it what should you not
do when it comes to networking for
business I'm going to share with you a
super juicy story that just happens that
completely illustrates this point this
story is so perfect for our topic today
so let's get to it
my name is Charlene Johnson welcome to
this edition of build your tribe thank
you for being here thank you for
subscribing really do appreciate that we
know that so many of you enjoy watching
this on YouTube or maybe you're
listening to it on your favorite
podcasting app either way we're just
grateful that you're here and we want to
thank you in advance for taking the
opportunity to make sure you're
subscribed and like extra added bonus
points if you'd be willing to leave a
review speaking of opportunities I've
got a great one for you now this isn't a
networking opportunity but it is an
incredible business opportunity as you
know Brock and myself operate a an
Instagram membership and in this program
in our membership program like we help
people get ahead of the curve so if
you're trying to figure out what the
heck is going on on Instagram that's not
what you should be spending your time
doing you have other much more important
things you need to be doing in your
business and we can help shortcut that
process for you and show you how to grow
and specifically grow with the type of
people who are looking for what it is
you offer and how to actually sell using
Instagram you can try instaclubhub now
for just seven dollars all you have to
do is click the link that you'll find
Below in our show description okay so we
are currently staying in a hotel we are
traveling through the south of France at
the moment my husband and I and you know
we're still working but we're also
having a lot of fun so it's hard work
and hard play and I'm going to change a
few of the details of the story just a
few
so that I don't identify the person who
I'm telling the story about even though
like the big sister bossy mom and me
would also kind of like for her to see
this to know
and to get it right the next time
but listen I've made these mistakes
myself and so I speak from experience
and I've also had lots of encounters
with other people where it was a great
opportunity for them and they missed it
and that's exactly what happened in this
particular story so my husband and I we
go to this little island where it's it's
like famous for having these incredible
fish incredible Seafood incredible music
DJ dancing you take a little boat over
everyone says when you go to Khan France
you have to go to lagerite it's this
like amazing place and so we did that
and you know we're enjoying ourselves
and everyone goes crazy it's like you
know the music is playing and they're
swinging their napkins and it's kind of
a party a party atmosphere and we
noticed that almost everyone this time
on our trip
is uh European like we're not hearing
many American accents but on this
particular day the cup the people that
were sitting next to us were speaking in
English and we we could tell they're
probably even Californians based on the
accent so my husband starts making small
talk with the dudes there's it's like
two guys and two girls and I'm like up
dancing with the girls
my husband's talking to one of the guys
and the boyfriend
calls his girlfriend over to look at
Brett's phone and you know I keep
dancing with the other girl and she
looks at the phone and then she turns
around she looks at me she's like oh my
gosh you're Brock Johnson's mom which
I'm like okay proud moment my co-host
Brock Johnson I'm like yeah and she's
like
I've been trying to have conversation
look he's been going back and forth and
kind of giving me some advice and stuff
I have started a small business and I
would love to to pick your brain I'd
love to like learn from you like oh my
gosh you're iconic you know you know
saying all these nice things I'm like oh
thanks and she's you know telling me a
little bit about her brand so she grabs
her phone and she's showing me her brand
let's just say that it was a
for the sake of being hypothetical let's
just say it was a a fitness bar it was
like a nutrition bar
and I'm like oh you know so that kind
whatever it was it definitely gelled
with like what it is I talk about my my
audience
Etc and so she's telling me about it and
I'm thinking to myself well we're
staying in a hotel and one of the things
that we're finding most difficult to do
is to get protein like there are it's
impossible to
first of all we it's hard to read the
labels and secondly it's so much bread
and cheese and amazing food but also a
lot and fruit but also it's like hard to
get protein in especially when you're
traveling and we don't have a full-size
refrigerator so it we can't really cook
for ourselves so I'm thinking to myself
oh this is very interesting so she tells
me more about it she tells me more about
you know how she's building this
business with her boyfriend and you know
the mission behind it and it's pretty
loud so I can't hear her too well but
and you know she wants me to connect
with her on Instagram which I did
and as I'm sitting there later
same day I'm thinking to myself you know
I could blow up her business listen I
don't promote things unless I freaking
love them and they solve a problem for
me and when I do they sell out like
there's it's crazy sometimes the things
that I'll say like I don't have any
affiliation with it it's not a discount
link but like girls you you've got to
get these shoes they're so comfortable
or whatever and those things sell out
like if I really like get behind
something like I'm gonna blow it up and
that's why we tend to get really great
deals from our sponsors and they signed
multi-year deals with us because if
we're talking about something it's
legitimately something we believe is
going to help people blah blah blah so
I'm thinking to myself I should
I can help this girl out you know I mean
I don't I don't know her but man when I
was her age she's in her late 20s I
would have died to and actually I did
have a few people who frankly did help
me out it was meeting them at the right
time and it was networking the right way
that like those connections probably
made a really significant difference in
our business
and I'm grateful to those people and and
to this day I thank them at every
opportunity that I have because they
didn't have to give me a shot they
didn't have to you know give me a leg up
or introduce me to someone so I'm
thinking to myself I should pay this
forward to this young girl and so what I
do is I uh send her a DM because it's so
loud so I send her a DM and I said
here's my phone number here's where
we're staying
um drop off some of those bars at the
hotel like tonight or tomorrow because I
knew she was leaving the next day and I
said you know do you have bars with you
she said yes I said well okay drop off
some of them at the hotel and listen
I'll try if if they're great I'll talk
about it a lot like we'll use this as a
solution while we're traveling and she
was like she gave me this face like
like she knew she knew this was big so
we go home that night the bars don't
show up
next day the bars don't show up that's
okay it's not like I was like you know
starving or anything but I was thinking
to myself man I hope she doesn't blow
this opportunity and then later that
night
so now it's two days later I get a text
message from her and she's like it was
so nice meeting you unfortunately I
didn't get a chance to bring the bars
over but I would love to send you a box
so that they're waiting for you when you
return
I tell you huge
huge missed opportunity number one
number two here's how I replied well
where we're traveling for the next six
weeks so there's really no address to
send them to and then after that we're
going to travel through the United
States for a couple of months so I
really don't have an address for you to
send them to and frankly what I'm
thinking to myself as like I can buy my
own box you know what I mean it was you
solving a problem for us it was it was
an opportunity to connect
and here's the thing with opportunities
every opportunity is not the opportunity
and when you're an entrepreneur it can
feel like every person you meet like how
do I evaluate what type of opportunity
there is and that's what I want to share
with you it's like first of all how do
you evaluate that number one you have to
look at what what's the sacrifice of
creating this connection of invest in
investing in this networking opportunity
that's first and foremost the sacrifice
for her was she had to figure out a way
frankly to get from her hotel to my
hotel I don't know 5-10 miles Max
she had to do that so she had you know
maybe there are a few cocktails that day
so she had to sober up maybe cancel
dinner plans I don't know maybe delayed
dinner plans but for whatever reason it
wasn't worth it to do that on that
evening next morning she also could have
done it but she probably would have had
to wake up like maybe an hour earlier
like let's say 20 minutes to our hotel
and 20 minutes back you know just to be
safe and I know it's the day that she
was leaving but like you would have she
would have had to maybe sacrifice sleep
and she didn't do either of those things
okay so that's a mistake frankly that
was a big it was I don't want him to
have like a a pretty woman moment but
like it was a big big mistake in my
opinion
the next thing that was a mistake is
when I replied back to her that we were
traveling
and um unfortunately you know I didn't
have an address for her to send it to
and I said however I wish you the best
of luck have a wonderful time
that's been a week and she hasn't
replied
so there was no follow-up
and that's the number one mistake that
people make when it comes to networking
is they don't follow up you have to have
a system for following up and I know
you're going to forget we're all going
to forget you're so busy you're an
entrepreneur it has to go in your
calendar the moment you meet someone
remember there's nothing if for that
person who you you can network with
let's face it if it's somebody who they
can help you more than you can help them
she can't help me other than well I
guess she could have given me some
protein right but like I can also get
that myself so you have to recognize
that you know there is a hierarchy of
networking opportunities and when you
meet someone they can either help you a
lot or you can help them a lot but it
usually isn't like doesn't usually go
both ways and really what I'm talking
about today are the opportunities where
it's it's very slanted in your favor you
want to network with this person because
they can really really help you
how do you do that number one you gotta
follow up number two you have to become
their biggest fan it's just human nature
we like people who like us
the number three thing you don't want to
do
is blabber on and on and on about
yourself and your business and who you
are and your resume because they don't
need to be impressed by you they really
don't
we are all it's human nature to be
impressed by people who are impressed by
us I want to know that you're hungry I
want to know that you're eager to learn
from me I want to know that you see that
this is an incredible opportunity I want
to hear humility I want to hear that you
are just starving for more information
like that you're a sponge I want to see
you whip out a pad of paper and start
taking notes like when I'm with somebody
and it's a networking opportunity and
they pull out and they're like hold on I
need to write this down like when
someone does that I'm like okay
let me just pour into this person
the next biggest mistake that people
make when it comes to networking is
being too aggressive and saying things
like please
for the love of God never say you know
I'd really like to pick your brain
you know I'd like to take you out for
coffee or I'd like to treat you to
dinner because that successful person
has so many other things they need to be
doing they need to be networking up they
can afford their own lunch their own
dinner their own private plane perhaps
like they and what they don't need is a
free meal
and what they don't have is extra time
like if it's someone who's that
successful they have employees and team
and staff and other they haven't even
gotten back to their mom you know what I
mean like so they really don't have time
and it's not at all appealing when you
suggest hey how about we sit down and I
pick your brain
it's like the worst thing you could ever
say in my opinion what's a great thing
you could say you could say I am
fascinated by you I you know I I don't
have a huge following I'm just gonna be
very honest like my podcast isn't as big
as yours but like your wisdom is so
incredibly valuable it would be such an
an incredible opportunity for me to be
able to interview you on my show and
share with my audience your profound
wisdom something like that that feeds
into ego let's face it like this is an
ego thing right it's ego in time so I
can I can justify making time to have a
conversation with somebody on a podcast
perhaps if it's a big enough podcast if
it's because because I know it's going
to reach more people versus I I really I
can't justify the average person can't
justify sitting down with what if
they're you know at a level where their
businesses has them incredibly busy and
they've got staff and team and and
multiple business centers to focus on
it's hard to justify sitting down with
one person who's a stranger who can do
nothing thing for you like when every
single hour is scheduled
so don't make the mistake of being
overly aggressive or making the ask
before you've actually poured into the
well as I say you know don't ask for the
water while you're thirsty like you've
got to make sure that the well is full
and how do you make sure the well is
full here's what I would do and I've
done it on many many occasions it's like
okay this person is amazing I can learn
so much from them
they don't need me
but what can I do to support them in
some way okay I can create a testimonial
for them I can become their biggest fan
I can go to their events I can and I've
done this like for example when I really
really wanted to Mentor be mentored by
Brian Tracy I paid for his events I
talked about the books and the at the
time this is embarrassing the CDs and
even cassettes that I had purchased from
him I I went to his events and then
after his events I recorded testimonials
and I sent them to him and I did that
repeatedly and then I tried to connect
it with people who were were on his team
and how could I serve them like what
could I do for them could I refer more
people to those events could I do things
that you know in some way shape or form
would that word would travel up the
ladder to Brian Tracy and it did and
eventually it did and eventually I I was
able to work with him and eventually I
was mentored by him and you know a big
part of that was becoming his biggest
fan
and not asking for anything just just
keep showing up and showing up and
showing up and yeah I think eventually
you can make an Ask of someone
eventually I did ask him to speak at one
of my events but I also paid him
so but you know it's it's
these networking opportunities they take
they require time authenticity follow-up
and humility here's another do not do it
is when someone comes across as I think
what they're trying to do is to show you
that they've got the confidence and
they've got that it Factor so that
you'll be like wow this person is
special I should pour into them but it
comes across as being very
um boastful and arrogant like I've had
people come up to me at one of my events
and said hey I just want you to know
I will be speaking on your stage next
year
and I'm like this oh
no you won't because like first that's
so presumptuous like we have no
relationship
so while I think what you're trying to
do is
exhibit confidence it's really going to
turn off and the last mistake I want to
talk about is
failing to maintain that relationship
like it is your responsibility it's not
theirs
it's not getting frustrated by the fact
that they don't respond to your DMs they
probably have too many followers it's
not getting frustrated by the fact that
they they haven't really taken notice of
you yet or they haven't done anything
for you it's like these kinds of
relationships they do take time and
there's reciprocity involved what would
I have done if I was that young woman we
met at the restaurant here's what I
would have done first of all I would
have hightailed it to some little
convenience store around here I would
have found a basket Not only would I put
those protein bars in there I probably
would have put some other cute little
things in there I would have written a
handwritten note you know something
about about what I've done so I can tell
that she actually knows who I am and the
connections that I could create for her
and the type of impact that she could
have like just basically kissing ass
right I would have written a note out
I've done this
totally kissing and not making any ask
whatsoever in fact I would do the
opposite I would have said in the note
please feel zero obligation to share
these I just hope that they are of
benefit to you and that you love them as
much as I do and that you get the
adequate amount of protein that you need
today like something about that like
when someone says please don't feel like
you have to share this it almost makes
me want to do it versus when people send
me things and they're like I would love
it if you share this to your stories I'm
like well now I won't you know what I
mean but plus you got to remember that
people once they have a certain social
media platform they get paid to do those
kinds of things so you really shouldn't
ask for it and the best thing to do is
to just give because you want to
because you really do appreciate that
person and the mentorship that they've
maybe giving you from afar so I would
have put a basket together I would have
given that person every single bar that
I have and I would have also written um
if there's anyone back in the States who
I can send boxes of these protein bars
to you know just because it was so great
to meet you please send me a text or
send me a message and let me know what
their addresses are now what that person
would have created is total reciprocity
and it would have been a reminder like
so now if let's say that that person had
sent protein bars to my kids or my
parents and then you know two weeks
later my mom or my dad or my kids are
like Mom I just got this box of protein
shakes or protein bars you know what
this is about now I'm thinking about
that person again now I'm I'm probably
going to reach out to them and express
my gratitude it's like she would have
been able to keep me in the front of her
mind
so look for opportunities to help to
serve without
expectation of being have having it
reciprocated even though there's a very
high likelihood it will that's what I
mean by being authentic like really
genuinely help people because you're
like I like this person and I want to
help them if I can because it will it
will come back to you tenfold hey it's
my goal to be brief to be bright to make
it fun and then be done I'd love to know
from you no matter where you're
listening leave a comment and let me
know what types of networking
opportunities have made a huge
difference for you how did you go about
it what mistakes have you made and if I
missed a big mistake that maybe you've
experienced we would love to know about
it so please respond to the first
comment that we have pinned under the
YouTube video if you're watching it
there otherwise thanks for being here
wherever you're listening to this
edition of build your tribe all right
guys we'll see you soon
[Music]